But when we were done,
Chappelle should have the Chappelle show after second year.
We weren't really making a lot of money or special cause the show still hadn't
been proven.
You know how something you got to,
if you've got a contract,
you've got contract.
That's it.
Just so happened to cotton.
Does the show blew up before the contract was over?
But that don't mean nobody's going to renegotiate.
So we had this popular but we weren't making money.
And um,
I came with the idea that doing a tour called the I'm rich bitch tour and at the
time,
at the time Charlie was China,
like anywhere it goes.
At the time bill burr was um,
uh,
a headliner probably at the time and be rooms,
you know what I'm saying?
And this is no disrespect to him,
but he was on the come up.
Right.
But when you saw bill,
you knew this muffle,
it was going to be next.
You knew he was going,
he was going to pop it,
but we still wasn't getting no cash.
Charlie had never told jokes and I was like,
how the fuck you around all these communities?
You never been on stage.
So I used to bully him.
You know,
he tough ass motherfucker,
rest in peace.
But I was like,
yeah,
you're so tough.
Motherfuck but not with a microphone in your hand.
And I bullied them so much that he finally went on stage and Charlie with the
tour was Charlie would mc and all we needed him to do was 10 or 15 minutes at a
time.
Me and Charlie outside of the day were to pop up people on the show.
Bill Burr had a couple of sketches per bill burden pop off of the show.
And I,
and I was like,
but if we're going to do this,
let's have a fire show.
You know what I mean?
Don't we could put somebody's weak in the middle.
I said,
let's give him a show that they won't ever forget.
And Charlie used to come out to 10 15 minutes and I tell people they,
I was like,
who's the toughest person to follow?
But Charlie would go through 10 15 minutes and Bill Burger would come out and do
20 to 25 and then I came behind bill.
Not One night for a year,
a whole year and bill burns or type of act.
You have no days off.
You have no or any of that,
any,
any little inkling of being off years going here.
Yeah,
I liked the show,
but the white dude was funny as a mother.
I didn't know.
And He,
and um,
you can tell her that time that Bill Byrd was going to be a star,
whether it would have been movies or television,
but as a stand up,
you know,
he was one of the pound for pound,
one of the dopest to do it.
And I told went off for a fucking year.
We had a blast.
Yeah.
Bill's brilliant.
Uh,
I got to work with Charlie for,
we did this maxim tour.
We did like 22 dates.
Me and him and John Heffron,
we traveled all over the place.
Does it,
when Charlie was starting to do it,
it was,
he kind of,
he's like two years in,
he was two years at the time.
And you know,
people joke,
people don't understand how tough it is to start as a comedian has a famous
person as a comedian that you're basically,
you're open miker does selling out all across the country.
And not only that,
but you're Eddie Murphy's brother.
So you got to fight past all of that shit,
creating your own identity.
You know what I'm saying?
Like I could not imagine like the heat he probably had.
Yeah.
But he ain't Eddie Murphy,
Eddie Murphy.
And that's one of the things that when Charlie passed that I really appreciated
about what the Chappelle show different him,
because when he passed away,
nobody said Eddie Murphy's brother died.
Right.
Everybody's like,
Charlie Murphy's passed away.
So he had his true identity.
And that was Charlie Murphy.
Yeah.
And that was one of his bits.
You know,
the,
you know,
is it,
does it piss you off or people y'all [inaudible] had?
He goes,
no,
I'm just having to not call me Eddie Murphy's brother anymore.
It was fun.
I remember that.
That was,
that was,
that was a joke and addressed it.
And He's capable.
And He,
and,
and he found himself,
he got better,
he got better.
And then he carved his own lane.
He called his,
he calls his own lane.
Did.
I was with Maury Smith used to be the UFC heavyweight champion and a Ivan
salivary.
He was a guy who fought in the middleweight division in the UFC and a couple
other professional fighters at a table with Charlie Murphy and trial.
He was explaining how none of these motherfuckers know how to do a Chicago Ridge
hand karate shit.
Oh,
he was big on like Charlie Murphy's holding court,
standing up all these UFC fighters and standing back and Charlie Murphy,
he's talking about rich hand isn't talking about it.
He knew exactly what he's talking about.
He knew how to fight for sure.
I had,
he had,
he would,
he'd never knew martial arts.
He was,
um,
he was big into it years ago.
He used to be on at his body guy when Eddie was like right at the height of his
stuff.
But um,
Charlie was like martial arts,
but everything that he said,
it was the truth.
You know what I mean?
You,
you didn't feel it like,
oh,
this dude is lying.
Everything he said it was true and one of the most genuine people you want to
meet man.
Just a dope guy.
Yeah,
his karate lineage.
Like he has some sort of a connection to some of my friends I'd have to ask them
to,
but he was like a legit martial artist too.
I saw one video of him in a,
in a martial arts contest and it was,
I dunno,
I dunno.
I always tell him,
I was like,
Yo,
you knocked a 14 year old.
Right.
I don't know how he,
I don't know if it was a way to whatever it was.
And I was like,
Yo,
that was a fucking kid you just knocked out.
He was like,
Yo,
anybody in the rink or fucking get it?
He was Yo,
he was putting kids in with them.
I don't know.
He never,
I saw the video.
He never wanted me to talk about it.
Whatever.
I used to bust his balls about him.
I could tell.
I could tell being around him that he legitimately knew how to fight.
Yeah.
Kinda.
You can tell the way he carries himself.
He just had deco,
that scowl.
He just looks like that buddy was the one of the nicest guys,
Matt and he was so fun to be around like in not knowing him at all and then
traveled with him for 22 days.
We had so much fun man.
Oh Man.
The stories all just laughing and silly and super friendly and all he wanted to
do is man just have a,
have a good time and laugh.
Yup.
That's all he wanted to and talk shit and talking shit to me all the time and
was so happy to be able to do stand up.
That was a big thing for him that he could do stand up and travel.
Always tell him.
I tell him all the time,
I said,
birth your career dude.
I bullied them into the shit.
That's hilarious.
But he did it.
But you could tell.
You can tell.
And I've been around him and I've been around his family and you could tell when
he was growing up,
he was the guy that always had the center of attention.
You can just tell it.
Yeah,
you could tell he knows how to hold a story as he does.
That was a hard one,
man.
When he,
when he passed I was like,
whoa.
I didn't know he was sick.
I had no idea.
You know,
it's interesting that you say that because I had to continue to do shows,
do radio interviews and stuff.
And the thing that people kept saying was he was so young,
he was so young and he was young.
But um,
I don't believe that we're all going to live to be 80,
90 a hundred.
You know,
only thing we all guarantee when we're born,
we have are born date.
We have that dash in the middle and then we have the end and it comes down to
what the fuck do you do with your dash?
Yeah.
How,
how hard did you live?
What did you go for?
What inspired you,
what motivates you?
What did you do with that dash?
Who the fuck gives a fuck about living to 100 and you don't have a passport,
you haven't been outside of your block,
you haven't been,
you haven't never been on an airplane.
What are you doing with your life?
And I know Charlie from the point of being in the navy to a band with his
brother,
sent his brother,
reached certain height of success,
be an interested in about it,
interested in the business,
but you know,
kind of India but never really major mark.
And then you get a platform that you become,
he gets your identity and shit.
That's the dopest shit.
Yes.
It's one of the best kind of success stories because it doesn't happen
automatically.
It's that Frank Sinatra and I did it my way and it's like,
you know,
people say what they want to say,
but he put the work in that.
I remember when,
um,
I think the movie Eddie did called Norbit right.
And it came from a joke.
Charlie had just started with that movie.
And I guess I think him and it was talking,
whatever,
and then you know how like,
oh,
that could be [inaudible] could be movie and motherfucker.
Charlie come and say,
Yo man,
I've handguns moved here.
I said,
what you build?
What you about to do?
He said,
I'm about to go lock myself in a hotel for 30 days and write this motherfucker
movie.
They already gave me the money.
You know what I'm saying?
I'm talking about,
I'm not talking about somebody,
I've been writing this movie for six months or whatever.
It's like I'm about to go block everything off and write this shit.